---
layout: post
title:  "PSAT: 4 Tips to Help You Get a Good Score"
author: sean
comments: false
categories:
  - tahoma news
image: assets/images/header_psat.jpg
tags:
  - featured
---

The PSAT is coming up, and as of October 6, it is less than two weeks away. Some people are stressing out over this, as expected, but here are four tips to get the best possible score!

_header image from Unsplash - Ben Mullins_

1.  **Find time to study.**

Disorganization is a big reason as to why people fail tests, and the PSAT is no exception. If you’re disorganized, you may spend too much time working on trivial projects, without taking time to study for the test. Make a schedule for yourself and find the time you need to study for what matters most.

2. **Know what matters the most.**

English and Math are the two subjects that are mentioned in the PSAT. It is best to practice these two subjects because the others aren't tested. Practice makes perfect!

3. **Take the practice test.**

The practice test is a great way to test your skills before the actual test. It gives you an idea of what the actual test will look like and will give you time to prepare. It allows you to get comfortable with the style and format of the questions as well. Spend as much time on this as you can!

4. **Review your class notes.**

You can use what you have learned in class to your advantage. Use whatever you jot down in class to help you gain an understanding of what you will be tested on. Remember: you are not allowed to bring your own notes to the PSAT, so try to memorize as much as possible.


With these tips, you'll do great on the PSAT. Good luck! 